Gulf grunion Scout the beach
[Applause]
then in their hundreds females surf in
on the waves shadowed by eager males
they are here to spawn but it's not
going to be easy each female tries to
propel herself as high up the beach as
she can to lay just beyond the reach of
the waves
[Music]
drilling herself into the sand is the
cue for the male grunion to move in they
wrapped themselves around her jostling
to fertilize the eggs
[Music]
in the frenzy many heads of this Lodge
once flicked out of the sand they won't
survive
[Music]
although these fish-out-of-water might
seem vulnerable the mass of flickering
bodies confuses predators
[Music]
the greatest danger comes as they
wriggle back to see
this is the moment the pelicans have
been waiting for
slightly deeper water means they can get
their bills underneath to scoop out
their victims
[Applause]
[Music]
this female runs the gauntlet and makes
it through
our eggs will develop quickly in the
warm desert sand and be ready to hatch
in two weeks or next spring tide
you